#summary Tutorial, examples, projects made with Mvp4g.
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

To help you understand the framework, Mvp4g comes with tutorials and examples. You can also check real projects to give you a better idea of what you can do with Mvp4g.

==Tutorial==

[http://mvp4g.blogspot.com/2011/04/mvp-pattern-associated-with-event-bus.html Layout]: Learn how to create your first Mvp4g application and how to set/manage its layout.

[http://mvp4g.blogspot.com/2011/04/history-with-mvp4g.html History]: See how you can add browser history support to your Mvp4g application. Also read about history advanced feature to learn about [http://mvp4g.blogspot.com/2011/06/navigation-control.html how to control your user navigation], [http://mvp4g.blogspot.com/2011/07/hyperlink-navigation.html use hyperlink navigation] or [http://mvp4g.blogspot.com/2011/08/custom-place-service.html define your own place service].

==Examples==
`EmployeeAdmin`: The GWT `PureMvc` example (as shown [http://employeeadm.appspot.com/ here]) but implemented with the Mvp4g framework. This example also illustrates how to easily unit test the presenters using JUnit directly.


`EmployeeAdmin with GXT`: Same example as `EmployeeAdmin` but implemented with GXT using different approaches ([http://groups.google.com/group/mvp4g/browse_thread/thread/5ba8664afbbda1f7 see Mvp4g and GXT post]). It also illustrates how to do unit tests with EasyMock.

`Mvp4gHistory`: This example shows how history is managed thanks to a Place Service.

`MailWithMvp4g`: This example shows the GWT Mail example converted with Mvp4g. It illustrates how Mvp4g can be used with `UiBinder` and the Reverse MVP approach.

`Mvp4gModules`: This example covers pretty much all the feature available in Mvp4g (Code splitting, history, filters...).

You can test these examples thanks to the [http://http://mvp4gexsc.appspot.com// Showcase].

==Projects==
[http://code.google.com/p/santa-exchange/ Santa Exchange]: The web site lets users manage a gift exchange and send invitations via email to create a Secret Santa party. This project code is intended to provide a solid foundation for building other web sites in the future and to demo all of the features needed in an enterprise-quality software project using these technologies. The best part, this project is open-source. This great example is available thanks to Kenneth Pronovici.

[http://www.xplana.com Xplana]: Xplana is the new student learning platform that bridges social networking and the traditional elements of education.

[http://www.nimble.com Nimble]: Nimble is a revolutionary Social Relationship Manager that links contacts, calendars and communication to social listening and engagement.

[https://demo.hossfeld-solutions.de/leelaV5/s2/logon/Logon.jsp Zeitarbeit Pro] (in German): This project illustrates a complete HR product to manage employees, candidates, clients, orders, bills, payrolls... It has been developed by Hossfeld Solutions using Mvp4g and GXT. (User-id: user003, password: pass003)